#  I chose to complete the first prompt: Create a JAVA program that analyzes a data set that interests you. Using https://corgis-edu.github.io/corgis/csv/, I found a Covid CSV file which contains COVID-19 case and death data collected by the Epidemic Intelligence team of the European Center for Disease Control and Prevention (ECDC).

The CSV file contains 53,629 rows of data, with each row consisting of 10 columns. The first column, Date.Day, contains the day of the month for a given report. The second column, Date.Month, contains the month for a given report. The third column, Date.Year, contains the year for a given report. The fourth column, Data.Cases, contains the number of new cases reported. The fifth column, Data.Deaths, contains the number of new deaths reported. The sixth column, Location.Country, contains the name of the country for a given report. The seventh column, Location.Code, contains the three letter country code. The eighth column, Data.Population, contains the population of the country in 2019. The ninth column, Location.Continent, contains the continent of the country. Finally, the tenth column, Data.Rate, contains the cumulative number of cases reported for 14 days per 100000 people.

My program, housed in the file 'covid.java', prompts the user for the name of the CSV data file. Once the user inputs the name of a valid file, it calls the created methods to process and analyze the data from the given input file. Finally, it calls a method to print the results of the data analysis. In doing so, my project uses multidimensional arrays, interactive input, files, and scanners.

After running my program, we find that the data file contains coronavirus case data from 350 days: December 31, 2019 to December 14, 2020. We also learn that the data file contains reports from 213 distinct countries. The program then prints out two tables of relevant data. The first table prints out new cases and deaths per day, for every one of the 350 days. Upon viewing that table, we can see that trend of new cases / deaths per day seems to mimic a normal distribution. The second table prints out deaths by country. Upon viewing this table, we can see that certain countries did not report a single covid-related death for all 350 days. On the other hand, some countries, like the U.S.A., reported thousands of deaths over this 350 day period (233729, to be exact).

There are many valuable insights that can be garnered from this data. In addition to the statistics my program looks at, we could expand this project to look at which country reported the most deaths, which country reported most deaths as a percentage of their overall population, which continent was the safest / least safe, and more.
